There has been a lot of
hype with the transformers.
In this video, I'll give you
an overview of the transformers model.
The transformer model was introduced
in 2017 by researchers at Google,
including Lukasz Kaiser,
who helped us develop this course.
Since then, the transformer architecture
has become the standard for
large language models, including BERT, T5,
and GPT-3, which you'll learn about later.
The transformers revolutionized the field
of natural language processing.
I suggest that you read
the first transformer paper,
Attention is all you need.
It's the basis for all the models
presented in the rest of this course.
You'll see how each part of
the transformer model works in detail.
But first, I want to give you a brief
overview of this architecture.
Now, don't worry if some of
its components aren't clear,
I'll go more in depth on
the following lectures.
The Transformer model uses
scale dot-product attention,
which you saw in the first
week of this course.
The first form of attention is very
efficient in terms of computation and
memory due to it consisting of just
matrix multiplication operations.
This mechanism is
the core of the model and
it allows the transformer to grow larger
and more complex while being faster and
using less memory than other
comparable model architectures.
In the transformer model, you will
use the multi-head attention layer.
This layer runs in parallel and
it has a number of scale dot-product
attention mechanisms and
multiple linear transformations of
the input queries, keys, and values.
In this layer, the linear transformations
are learnable parameters.
The transformer encoder starts
with a multi-head attention module
that performed self attention
on the input sequence.
That is, each word in the input attends
to every other word in the input.
This is followed by a residual
connection and normalization,
a feed forward layer, and another
residual connection and normalization.
This entire block is one encoder layer and
is repeated N number of times.
Thanks to self attention layer,
the encoder will give
you a contextual representation
of each one of your inputs.
The decoder is constructed similarly
to the encoder with multi-headed
attention modules,
residual connections, and normalization.
The first attention module is
masked such that each position
attends only to previous positions.
It blocks leftward flowing information.
The second attention module
takes the encoder output and
allows the decoder to attend to all items.
This whole decoder layer is also repeated
some number of times, one after another.
Transformers also incorporates
a positional encoding stage which encodes
each input's position in the sequence.
This is necessary because transformers
don't use recurrent neural networks, but
the word order is relevant for
any language.
Positional encoding can be learned or
fixed, just as with word embeddings.
For instance, let's suppose you want
to translate from the French phrase.
Over here you have [FOREIGN], and
then you want to capture
the sequential information.
The transformers uses a positional
encoding to retain the position of
the input sequence.
The positional encoding has values that
are added to the embeddings so that for
every input word you have information
about its order and position.
In this case, a positional encoding
vector for each word, [FOREIGN].
Putting these parts together,
here's the full model architecture.
Briefly on the left,
the input sentence is first embedded and
the positional encodings are applied.
This goes to the encoder,
which consists of multiple layers
of multi-head attention modules.
On the right is the decoder,
which takes the output sentence,
shifts it over one step to the right,
and the outputs from the encoder.
The decoder output is turned
into output probabilities using
a linear layer with a softmax activation.
This architecture is easy to
parallelize compared to RNN models, and
as such, can be trained much more
efficiently on multiple GPUs.
It can also scale up to learn multiple
tasks on larger and larger datasets.
I went through this quickly but
don't worry,
I'll go in-depth on each
part in later videos.
In summary, RNNs have some problems that
come from their sequential structure.
With RNNs, it is hard to fully exploit
the advantages of parallel computing.
And for long sequences, important
information might get lost within
the network and
vanishing gradient problems arise.
But fortunately, recent research
has found ways to solve for
the shortcomings of RNNs
by using transformers.
Transformers are a great alternative
to RNNs that help overcome these
problems in NLP and in many fields
that process sequential data.
You now can see why everyone
is talking about transformers,
they are indeed very useful.
In the next video, I'll talk about some
of the applications of transformers.